Full the CCN a course you need to know three types of not the first one is static not.
Second one is dynamic not and food one is packed static Nat maps a private IP version for address to
a public IP version 4 address.
This is a one to one mapping.
This is very useful when a device must be accessible from outside the network.
For example you have a web server in your internal network that needs to be accessible from devices
on the Internet.
So this type of net is often used for servers that require a static IP address dynamic Nat maps a private
IP version 4 address to a public provision for address from a group of public provision for addresses
or from a pool of addresses.
This could be used as an example where two companies merge and they using the same IP address space.
So you have two companies for example using IP addresses 10 dot one dot 1.0 and the devices in those
two companies need to talk to each other rather than renumbering you addresses.
You can use dynamic nat to allow those devices to talk to each other.
It's not a very efficient and should only be used when absolutely necessary.
Now putit translational packed maps multiple private IP addresses to a single public IP address.
So in other words you taking many IP addresses and mapping them to a single public IP address.
Think of your network at home you may have multiple PCs iPhones iPads or other devices that only to
access the internet ISP however will typically only give you one IP address for your home network.
So you may have three or four or maybe even more devices let's say 10 IP devices that are using one
public IP address.
So 10 devices or as many devices as you've got at home are using private IP addresses and those addresses
are then enacted to the public IP address on your router the Sheezus port numbers to differentiate between
the different translations.
Hence the term port address translation pet is also known as Knecht overloading.
We are overloading a single IP address with multiple IP addresses.
It's a type of dynamic Nat and is the most common type of not in use today and you'll typically find
it all over the place in businesses as well as your home network.